README.md, before:

![zilpzalp](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/blob/main/img/zilpzalp_photo.jpg?raw=true)

# zilpzalp
A wonky 28-key, column-staggered, unibody-split keyboard made with fantastic FOSS software: [ergogen](https://github.com/ergogen/ergogen) and [KiCad](https://www.kicad.org/).

Four versions are available:
- the version with support for optional hotswap sockets and slightly extended edgecuts to acommodate the extra space required by the socket (in the [pcb](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/tree/main/pcb) directory)
- the cfx version with different spacing, making the zilpzalp almost 1.5 cm smaller horizontally (in the [pcb_cfx_spacing](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/tree/main/pcb_cfx_spacing) directory)
- the default-spacing solder-only version with tighter edge cuts (in the [pcb_solder_only](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/tree/main/pcb_solder_only) directory)
- the minimal-choc-spacing solder-only version with the tightest spacing that choc V1 switches allow for (in the [pcb_minimal_choc](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/tree/main/pcb_minimal_choc) directory)  
  **Note:** You will have to procure minimal-spacing keycaps. I am not aware of any commercial solution. Recommendation: [Philadelphia Minimalist](https://github.com/pseudoku/PseudoMakeMeKeyCapProfiles/blob/master/Philadelphia_Minimalist.scad) by [Pseudoku](https://github.com/pseudoku)

**Warning:** The solder-only versions (both default and minimal-spacing) have not been tested yet!

Some example keymaps for getting an idea of how zilpzalp may be used can be found in the [`example_keymaps` directory](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/tree/main/example_keymaps).

## BOM
- 1 pcb
- 1 Seeed XIAO RP2040 controller
- 14 sot23 diodes (common cathode)
- (optional, for hot swap versions only: 28 choc hot swap sockets)
- 28 kailh choc low profile switches
- 28 fitting keycaps (pay special attention here when building the cfx or minimal-spacing version!)

## Firmware
As of now the [QMK firmware](https://github.com/kilipan/qmk-config-zilpzalp) and [ZMK firmware](https://github.com/kilipan/zmk-config-zilpzalp) are only tested and confirmed-functional for the Seeed XIAO RP2040 controller.  
There is also an untested ZMK firmware for the Seeed XIAO BLE and an untested KMK firmware, which will both be made available after testing.

## Inspiration
- all the fantastic keyboards, knowledge, and help by [GEIST](https://github.com/GEIGEIGEIST/), [Freya](https://linktr.ee/freya_irl), [Bob](https://github.com/GroooveBob), and the wonderful Clacktales keyboard community
- the [hummingbird](https://github.com/PJE66/hummingbird) keyboard and the [rufous](https://github.com/jcmkk3/trochilidae#rufous) variation
- the [aptmak](https://github.com/apsu/aptmak) keymap

<p align="center">

![zilpzalp](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/blob/main/img/zilpzalp.png?raw=true)

</p>

Commit message:

mention keeb.supply shop page

README.md, after:

![zilpzalp](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/blob/main/img/zilpzalp_photo.jpg?raw=true)

# zilpzalp
A wonky 28-key, column-staggered, unibody-split keyboard made with fantastic FOSS software: [ergogen](https://github.com/ergogen/ergogen) and [KiCad](https://www.kicad.org/).

For buying ready-to-assemble kits, consider [keeb.supply](https://keeb.supply/products/zilpzalp)! They share part of the profits made by selling zilpzalp with me!

Four versions are available:
- the version with support for optional hotswap sockets and slightly extended edgecuts to acommodate the extra space required by the socket (in the [pcb](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/tree/main/pcb) directory)
- the cfx version with different spacing, making the zilpzalp almost 1.5 cm smaller horizontally (in the [pcb_cfx_spacing](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/tree/main/pcb_cfx_spacing) directory)
- the default-spacing solder-only version with tighter edge cuts (in the [pcb_solder_only](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/tree/main/pcb_solder_only) directory)
- the minimal-choc-spacing solder-only version with the tightest spacing that choc V1 switches allow for (in the [pcb_minimal_choc](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/tree/main/pcb_minimal_choc) directory)  
  **Note:** You will have to procure minimal-spacing keycaps. I am not aware of any commercial solution. Recommendation: [Philadelphia Minimalist](https://github.com/pseudoku/PseudoMakeMeKeyCapProfiles/blob/master/Philadelphia_Minimalist.scad) by [Pseudoku](https://github.com/pseudoku)

**Warning:** The solder-only versions (both default and minimal-spacing) have not been tested yet!

Some example keymaps for getting an idea of how zilpzalp may be used can be found in the [`example_keymaps` directory](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/tree/main/example_keymaps).

## BOM
- 1 pcb
- 1 Seeed XIAO RP2040 controller
- 14 sot23 diodes (common cathode)
- (optional, for hot swap versions only: 28 choc hot swap sockets)
- 28 kailh choc low profile switches
- 28 fitting keycaps (pay special attention here when building the cfx or minimal-spacing version!)

## Firmware
As of now the [QMK firmware](https://github.com/kilipan/qmk-config-zilpzalp) and [ZMK firmware](https://github.com/kilipan/zmk-config-zilpzalp) are only tested and confirmed-functional for the Seeed XIAO RP2040 controller.  
There is also an untested ZMK firmware for the Seeed XIAO BLE and an untested KMK firmware, which will both be made available after testing.

## Inspiration
- all the fantastic keyboards, knowledge, and help by [GEIST](https://github.com/GEIGEIGEIST/), [Freya](https://linktr.ee/freya_irl), [Bob](https://github.com/GroooveBob), and the wonderful Clacktales keyboard community
- the [hummingbird](https://github.com/PJE66/hummingbird) keyboard and the [rufous](https://github.com/jcmkk3/trochilidae#rufous) variation
- the [aptmak](https://github.com/apsu/aptmak) keymap

<p align="center">

![zilpzalp](https://github.com/kilipan/zilpzalp/blob/main/img/zilpzalp.png?raw=true)

</p>
